- [Instructor] The next iteration of our course project
builds integration with Twitter's REST API
to listen for tweets made about specific topics.
The Twitter API is one of the most popular
public APIs available.
It has a long history
that dates back to its release in 2006.
Today, the Twitter API is just part
of the Twitter developer platform.
This platform features an ads API,
tools for embedding content into websites
and an experimental lab.
What draws developers to the Twitter API
is the sheer volume of data that can be analyzed
and listened to for specific events.
The Twitter platform has an estimated
330 million active users per month.
People across the world make 200 billion tweets per year.
That means roughly every second, there are 6,000 tweets.
Think about all those tweets that just occurred.
Those tweets tap into the hearts and minds
of people around the world, creating a stream of information
that researchers, scientists, businesses and governments
can analyze for a variety of purposes.
The Twitter API is the gateway for developers
who want to unlock that stream of information
to build new applications and capabilities.
There are two versions of the API
and three different access tiers.
We'll be working with Twitter, API V2
which is currently available for early access.
At the moment the version two API
is limited to information regarding tweets and users.
However, the product roadmap targets capabilities
like trends and time series metrics for future delivery.
Let's just do a quick pass within the documentation
to learn more about the API.
So from the developer platform, head into the Docs
and then dive into the Twitter API.
And then on the left-hand sidebar
you're going to see the two objects that are available.
One is Tweets, one's Users.
Expand Tweets and head into the Search Tweets section.
Now in the Docs, most of the important information for us
is within the API reference.
So let's go there
and then I'm going to dive into the recent search endpoint.
Now, we're not going to talk about recent search,
we're more going to focus on some global aspects
of the Twitter API.
So, first you'll see the domain for the API,
it's api.twitter.com
and you can see they specify the version in the path
to an endpoint.
And then they just finish off
with the remainder of the path.
The API is protected using OAuth two,
so that's the security scheme,
and that's going to require us to provide a bearer token
in our requests.
Another thing I want to highlight is the rate limiting.
So providers of APIs will often limit clients
to a number of requests over a specific window.
Here they've chosen to allow 450 requests
within a 15-minute window.
They do this to prevent an abusive client
from making the API unavailable to other clients.
So, our client isn't going to have that problem
because of the number of calls we'll make.
But if you have a different usage scenario
just be aware of this.
Alright, another thing I want to point out,
if we look at the query parameters
you'll see several that have this field suffix,
you can see two here.
And this field suffix is really neat
because it allows us to shape the response
that gets sent back to our client.
Let's scroll down to talk a little bit more about this.
So here's an example response
and it's the base tweet object,
and it only contains two properties,
id and the text of the tweet.
Now, we can use those parameters that have the field suffix
to mold what that JSON looks like.
So here in the optional fields tab
you can see that we're able to add
additional properties to the tweet.
So it's really flexible in that
you control what data gets sent back to you in the JSON
in the response body.
Alright, let's go take a look at one more thing.
So over on the sidebar, click on filtered stream
and we're going to talk about the filtered stream
here at a high level.
The filtered stream capability
works a little bit differently
than your typical request and response scenario
with most API calls.
Instead of making a request and receiving a response,
the stream endpoint is event-based.
It pushes specific tweets to a client
based upon a set of roles that are established
for the client through a roles endpoint.
So, you can see that here.
This endpoint is used to establish or delete a role.
All the client's roles are managed through this endpoint
and you essentially establish key words
or different query-like predicates
that determine what tweets get sent in your stream.
Once a client has established these roles,
they can then connect to the stream using this endpoint
and sending an HTTP GET.
At that point, Twitter is going to start pushing tweets
into their stream, it's pretty neat.
Twitter's API is very popular amongst developers
because of the amount of activity on the platform
that can be accessed and analyzed for many purposes.
We'll get hands-on with these APIs in upcoming lessons
so you can experience the power of the Twitter API.